Next up we'll see a few other methods we can use to add new elements to the dome.
We've seen a Penn child.
So far we'll see other options.
And we'll also talk about removing elements how do we delete something from the dome as we saw in the
very last video.
A Penn child takes a new element but it's a method that we call on a parent.
So to add a new ally to this list I need to select the list so I could do document the query selector.
Take the first.
I think it's a UL query selector of well I'll call this parent UL so I have that parent.
Well I'll make a new ally const new ally equals document that creates elements of ally.
And then I will set it in our text just to be something like I am a new ally okay.
So we have that.
Now I need to make sure my quotes match when I do a Penn child.
It becomes the last element the last child of the parent.
So parent you dot append child of new ally.
That's what we get.
And that is useful.
Sometimes you do want to append at the end the last child of an element.
But what if we wanted to put it at the beginning make a new top to do.
Maybe these are ordered by priority or you know due date or something like that.
And I want my new to do to go up here.
Or what if I want it to go in the middle.
We have a different method called insert before.
Now insert before sounds like the way that it would work is that we select a node and call insert before
on it.
So if I wanted to insert before this ally you might think I select that ally and then I call you know
first ally dot insert before new ally.
But that's not how it works.
We actually still have to select the parent and we have to select the element we want to insert before
it's kind of annoying not not knowing enough that you shouldn't use it.
But it's just kind of cumbersome.
So if I want to make this ally that I have down here I want it to go up top above mow the lawn I need
to first select mow the lawn so I'll make a variable called first ally equals document.
And what's the best way to select it.
I think it's the very first ally on the entire page.
Let me just double check over here.
We've got.
Yeah.
Or it's the first to do on the page.
We could do it that way if you want to get more specific.
The first ally with the class of to do.
And if we look at it there it is.
OK.
So I have all the pieces I need I have my new ally that I've made.
Right now it's down here but I still have a reference to that.
So if I move it it will move from down here.
Then we also have the first ally I want to insert before and I have the parent you well.
So here is how I would insert my ally at the top of the well I call parent you will dot and then insert
before and then the annoying part is we have to say the new thing we want to insert new ally.
And where I want to insert it where I want to insert it before I want to insert it before the first
Ally.
Okay.
So the way it's structured again we have to have the parents of what we're trying to insert into.
And then we also have to select what we want to insert before and then what we are actually inserting.
And there we go.
It's now inserted as a child of parent you well but it's also before first ally.
And if I wanted to move it right above feed the alpacas I need to select that one.
So I'll call that last.
Well Concerta last.
Well equals document that query selector.
I'm going to do a selector all of ally with the class of to do and then take the index of two which
is the third one zero one.
Nope it's the third one.
It's the fourth one index of three because we inserted this so that should give me no that did not give
it to me.
Let's see last.
Well actually I was wrong here.
Index of three is only going to work if I actually had four elements with the class of to do.
I forgot that this one up top does not have to do so we'll get rid of that and change it to index of
two but I've already declared this variable so I'm going to call this last to do so now I can insert
I'll do parent you l dot insert before and then I want to insert the new ally before the last to do
and then we go.
It now is right before the last two do feed the alpacas we also have a completely different method that
we could use called insert adjacent element and this one's a bit more complicated we pass in an element
we have to have a target element but then we also pass in a position and this is a string which might
seem odd but we have four choices before begin after begin before end and after end.
So if you imagine that this is our target we have a paragraph if we want to insert something before
this paragraph we would pass in before begin if we want to insert it after we use after end and then
if we want to insert it as the first child of the paragraph after begin and before end we'll be the
last child.
So let's try this just one or two times we can use the same Ally I guess or actually let's make a new
element it will just be a bold tag or how about an I tag document that creates element of I and we'll
call this tag or I whatever.
Not a great name but that's fine.
And then we'll do I dot enter text equals I am I italics.
Okay so we have our eye tag now let's select one of these elements how about the very first paragraph
on our page.
So that will be document that query selector P. save that to contact first P..
Now I can call first P. that insert adjacent element and then I have to specify where.
So if I do before begin and this method I think is kind of unpopular mainly because you have to remember
these strings and a lot of the time you just want to insert something as the last child anyway so you
can use a pen child and shortly I'll show you two other methods append and pre pen.
But here we can pass in before begin and then our new ie element and if we take a look it was inserted
before the paragraph began.
So that's a way of inserting something before the paragraph.
And I personally think this is nicer even if you have to remember before begin it's better than what
we did earlier when we had to select the parent insert before the target and then the new element.
Let's try the same line but we'll do after.
And now it goes after the paragraph after the paragraph ends.
And if we do after begin it goes into the paragraph element itself after the opening tag the beginning
tag it goes right there and then we have the final option before end which will put it right here before
the end of the paragraph.
One more time before and for end.
And there it is.
So another option for inserting I did mention there are two other methods we can talk about called append
and prepared.
These are newer.
They do not work in Internet Explorer of course and they're just a little bit simpler than a pen child.
And also there is no prepared child.
So append is different from a pen child.
In that we can actually insert in multiple elements at once.
So if I have this paragraph tag let's see I have my eyes still and I have my new ally right now.
What do I new ally.
OK.
All Caps her l capital I capital.
So we have two elements.
If I want to insert both of them into this paragraph which we shouldn't really just put an ally in a
paragraph but if I wanted to I could use append.
So it looks like this the first paragraph that we already selected got append and then we can pass in
I and new ally and now both of them have been appended inside that paragraph the italics tag was already
there.
So it kind of looks like nothing happened but it did happen I promise.
And we also have prepared which is the same idea except it will make things a first child.
So it still will be a child of the paragraph but it will go to the beginning of the paragraph and there
we go if we look we've got I am italics I am a new ally.
They're still inside the paragraph but they are at the very beginning.
So appended prepared are nice they're short you don't have to do a pen child.
I mean you just save a couple letters but with a pen child you cannot insert multiple if I did a pen
child here it's not going to be happy with me we get the one element inserted I am italics but the ally
was never added it just stayed where it was.
So append is cool because you can do that but it does not work in i.e. neither does prepared well.
So many different ways of adding elements stick with a couple you don't have to master all of them append
child is usually good enough if you have multiple you can do append maybe you could do insert adjacent
element you just have to remember the syntax you've got preplanned.
Next I'll show you some ways of removing elements.